okay welcome everyone to this week's IPL
d sync meeting is 2020 February the 17th
and as every week we talk about the
stuff that the IPL team is working on
and has worked on and worked on the next
few days and yeah and then discuss any
open agenda items we might have I
started with myself I've worked on the
rust IPL the stuff and it's really M
getting started finally and it's shaping
up nicely so I found that how to do it
some coding so there is a PR for multi
hash which is currently in review
and so the exciting thing is um it got
reviewed by quite a lot of people so
it's really by I think now seven
different people from seven different
companies so it's really like it's an
amazing so it's not like only ppl people
review I'd really like independent
people for other companies so it's
really nice that this Ivan it's really
exciting so this makes me really happy
and yeah and shame up quite nicely and
then the other thing is that there is
currently a deaf grand open for rust
ipfs which is close to being approved
and those people already have opened an
issue which I filling the notes about
IPS rusts there's a volume repository
where you basically want to collect all
the people that are involved I want to
get involved with the Russell foundation
of IPs but then also of course I feel I
shall be in multi formats and so on
so in case you could watch and want to
get involved then go to github.com
I think that's rust so they should all
come and yeah final issue there um and
with those people that could view I also
had a call last week and the notes from
the meeting are also linked in the notes
I was pretty good just to see Ike yeah
what the plan is what I need to do is so
they can use the use it--only what they
plan to do but the focus will be and so
on yeah if you've interested just read
the notes and so what I won't work on is
I did it through three weeks ago started
with some block API I want to complete a
draft so I can discuss those with the
other people and then also what I really
need to do in this week is writing a
blog post about all the rust ipfs effort
because just last week there was another
repository from a company in China
opened they also didn't I
rust I guess implementation or started
and I also pink them and yeah that yeah
we should look together and so on so I
really want to make sure that we get the
word out so people know like also like
we are the entry points way get in touch
with the people and ya know this is
something happening and then we can work
on all the stuff together yeah I'm
really happy this shapes up so nicely so
yeah that's all I have next on my list
is Tim but he's not here so he's working
on the selector stuff and yeah also yeah
it's a little bit faster so it's it's
good and I just go to the next one who
brought yep it's very familiar last week
my status not more comp a stuff
so we're we're landed last week was so
trying to get calm Pete generated in
lambda we have three gigs
there's no 3008 Meg's of memory and 500
Meg's of T scratch to do a one gig piece
the compy for one gig piece the best I
could do is somewhere over is somewhere
towards 3100 Meg's of memory so it just
doesn't run in lambda and yeah it so it
needs it needs about a gig for a padded
version and then a gig for and then
about two gigs for caching during the
local tree calculation you know I think
both of those pieces are they could be
streamlined I think there could be a lot
more I think both of those things could
be done in a streaming way but that's
this is deep in the bowels of the file
cutting proofs so we so stuck with that
so what I did do is the the Merkle tree
caching backing store is pluggable so by
default the file coin proofs plugs in a
disk backing store and that's what we
had to swap out to get into memory with
a with a backing store that are already
ships with which is a vector backing
store so what I did was wrote a backing
store that pieced together a disk end a
vector backing store and put a bet just
under four hundred Meg's on disk and
then the rest in memory then that comes
in under under sizing memory and uses of
a bit of disk to get there now it's
working as a lambda I'm actually getting
results from it at least from some tests
simple test data for one gig test data
and not super confident in the code I
got Locker
reviewed it for me and fixed a bunch of
my rust rustiness and but there was one
bug in particular there that should have
been a logical but the group should have
caused poor calculation but didn't so
that raises questions about why didn't
that show up as a as a bug in the in the
results so that that undermines my
confidence a little bit in this is doing
the right thing even though it seems to
be giving me the right results so it's
the kind of thing that as I've said
before the further we move away from
using the code that well ideally that
lotus end and go Falcone using the more
then the more reduced confidence we
should have in the results so then one
we commit to this path the more testing
we're gonna have to do to make sure that
our comput values are actually what far
coin will be producing for the same data
so there the other thing I was doing I
started filling with on Friday was no
actually Saturday writing some of this
stuff in JavaScript not because I think
that would be an ideal way to do it but
because I I feel like I want more
confidence in understanding how what
this is actually doing because I'm
making a lot of assumptions along the
way so I figure we'll just try Andrea my
bits of it and see if I can get the
results that I should do and so that's
an interesting exercise not probably not
going to be massively fruitful but
interesting anyway but I should be able
to yeah I have a rust lambda that I can
publish I just not super confident in it
and then the other thing was I had a
chat lyric yesterday about some just
general IP LD data structure like
internal representations API is a little
bit about the sorting stuff key sorting
memories memory representation of key
sorting versus codecs versus all that's
where stuff
there was a - - thread on slack in in
slack there was a thread about this and
we had a chat about it I took some notes
I think Eric took some probably better
notes but it it occurred to us that
there was the kind of stuff that really
Volker should be looked in on as well
while he's at the early stages of rust
implementation yeah you know we need to
get some no doubt about that that's me
next on my list is Michael hey yeah so
um last week I finished up a lot of like
the fixes and migrations for this new
slicer project gets the car files down
below a gig I lost like a day I figured
out that there's a segmented scan that
you can do that supposed to be faster
but the moment that I started doing it
we were then overloading our Dynamo
table in terms of throughput so I had to
back off and go back to sequential so
that sucks but nearly done sort of
migrating and fixing all the basically
bugs now any old data okay yes now I
created all of that and then I'll
probably kind of lock on the compy
generation unless I think Roger said
that he's got it up though that we we
think it probably works so we can start
throwing some stuff at it that's good
stuff in it okay great okay I'll pull it
up and get it in the lab done from there
and even if it just works like once I
can at least get the rest of the code
around it working so that'd be good
one thing that I'm worried about it's
just that like we it says that we like
the land of limits say that we have a
half gig of 10
disk and then but Brian the root thought
that that was shared between the lender
functions so I'm gonna need to see what
the deal was with that we'll find out
pretty quickly probably know why yeah so
that'll be interesting so yeah that's
something along that'll be hopefully
kind of senior step by the end of it
week all right
and then also talking with Brian sort of
kicking around this idea for a database
built on like he'll be stuff that's
gonna think of it as that it's basically
a transaction log over a hampt so it's
just like a key value store in the hand
and the transaction log over all of the
different manipulations on it
so that you can like and get you can
always kind of pull ahead and figure out
what all the operations were between one
point of the next in terms of in which
sequence the different operations
happened on different notes you
manipulating the same data structure and
then you can sort of sync them around so
um yeah I've been poking it bad a little
bit and it made me start thinking about
some of the API questions that we've had
for a long time in a new light
in particular we we're definitely going
to need a storage layer that knows how
much of a graph is stored for a
particular cid so basically just if the
whole graph is stored in that so it's
it's not enough to just say like oh I
have this block or I don't and you know
if you have everything underneath the
block yet or else I can't really do
efficient sync operations so that's one
thing another thing is um in the type
the type generation stuff that I have
from schemas for the longest time I had
been I had this get method on it that
would get blocks out and traverse its
way through multiple color block layers
and then cast the Limbo's into the types
and now that I'm trying to use that in
this their context I'm realizing that
that's not quite the way do you want to
use that it's actually probably better
to have something that takes the storage
layer and takes the types and has an API
for gluing them together and casting
traversing through them properly so I
might work on that at some point as well
but yeah that was just sort of like a
nice kind of Sunday project and I
started poking around that um and up
next is Eric I did not make my goal for
we could getting all of the interface
changes basic node we right in to the
court in go IPO D prime or the Codex
traversals and stuff that was that was
really ambitious turns out what took a
bit more time than I expected was
primarily while I was doing all these
new interfaces I started for the sake of
iterating quickly I just
slung all of the new code in like one
giant package all the benchmarks will
have to do all this stuff so I just
press two traits he won't snow do it
yeah so now as I get ready to move this
into the core and like make it correct
and compartmentalize taking the basic
notes stuff which is what I'm renaming I
killed lead-free but what was the code
name is fine they've gotten too much for
me it's basic node package versus
another package where I'm going to put
the prototype code and stuff that I was
using to make sure that research stays
on track pulling those out turned out
non-trivial because the demo code gen
stuff was using some of the internals of
the basic remote package and it turns
out if I want to maintain some of the
contracts around immutability these
things cannot touch in a central way
when they're actually in separate
packages and so there was just some
learning experiences for the future code
in in there and I'm basically tabling
fixing those for this package because it
doesn't matter for like it was a
research project right so I'm just going
to like kind of drop those bits but the
lesson was learned and the good side
effect is I'm getting a ton of design
dockside of the week which are probably
going to continue to pay off in future
and hopefully be generalizable
I'm working on a nice
right up of like just identifying all
the different values you could
prioritize like the speed versus the
assembly size train and then go through
the trade-off selection and then this
sort of explains a lot of the code very
quickly at least I hope I also can we're
gonna have issues than usual
if anybody listening wants to do some
going coding work that's like pretty
well-defined like self-contained fun
places to the play there's a bunch of
new issues on pipe and be primed for
some like traversal interfaces that I
think would be cool to have and probably
easy to do on top of the core stuff so I
did some write-ups on those things that
I think might be good ideas but if
anybody wants to jump on them they don't
know and I also got one open on thinking
out loud about every return strategy
because I realized some of the cases
where I'm returning errors are a little
brute pose and I struggle to defend the
verbosity now so anybody who has like
nuanced opinions on that one comments
would be welcome and we're maybe
starting some conversations with go ipfs
about them integrating some more of all
this stuff those are still very early
conversations like research is needed on
generating some concept of scope and
like what would go and one order in that
process
that's we'll see how that goes and is
wrapping it up for me two things and I
have a question for all about the
complete stuff so we you mentioned at
one point that so the problem with the
heading sn' obviously putting at the end
but the what they call padding like the
bits shifting around somehow yeah then
it you can't stream it because it also
goes backwards and so on and is it
would it be insanely complicated to
change it to streaming or is it just
like like insanely mildly perhaps this
is what I'm feeling within JavaScript
right now just turn it and why so
there's this weird code in there the it
in in rustic needs the seek trait
because it go it backs up so go it goes
forward and then it backs up and then
goes forward again and I'll try to
understand why it backs up and why it
just doesn't because it is I think it's
only backing up like a byte at a time so
you know in theory this is this is not a
a siik to a random place this is just a
little backing up so in theory it should
be really easily streamable and why
isn't this thing just caching a bite or
two why does it need to seek that's what
I don't understand is it's one of these
pieces that I like what what okay so
busy music I might just like also I kept
a quick look at it because think I mean
basically I'm kind of like also
interested in it and it was like just
saying if you say okay like no way off
they forget about it I probably won't
but it sounds like it is interesting
code I mean you you're you're in the
proofs so this is this should be your
area
yes yeah it is interesting and and like
the whole algorithm is interesting look
it's in I'm gonna paste it in the chat
at CFR 32 in file coin proofs there's
one in storage proofs but this one in
Fargo in proofs is where most of the
work is done
where's the check it's it's only matters
it's heaps of documentation it's just
some of its really an obscure like have
you really and I think but I think the
way the reason that it's really
complicated is that it's allowing for
arbitrary padding so we're only caring
about padding two bits per two 54 bits
that's that's the mess the padding
that's the only padding we care about
but this thing is written so that it
could take any number of padding bits
per bits
so it's sittin in this hyper generic way
so it allows for these crazy edge cases
but we only care about two per 2:54 so
like there is it for that case it should
be simple but I think it's trying to
account for any arbitrary number of
padding kids because the file that I bet
he stayed away from because he never did
like some error healing improvements all
the improvements or like anything I was
like oh no God oh my god it's calling if
I'm 32 like this yeah certainly like one
of the crazy amounts of there's one
function that's worth looking at the
trans days it's right I've had an ox so
it's it's and it does most of the work
and it's it's taking that C Keable
string and it's and it really is just
it's backing up by one and like okay
yeah yeah Michael I have a question for
you yep 912 Meg's why that number
particularly so one is that I wanted to
keep it so it has to be rounded to 1 Meg
obviously because along the other
slicing is already like the way that we
tend to slice is already aligned to one
megabyte slices or one megabyte chunks
sorry I wanted to make sure that there
was enough room for all of the blocks
all of the UNIX must be one blocks and
the car file overhead when we put a lot
of small files into one of these and we
already have to keep the small car file
files under a certain amount of absolute
files because then the root block gets
too big so to keep the root block under
under like 2 Meg's or Meg it has to be
something like 20,000 so yeah the 912 is
like a pretty safe number to make sure
that we always have even with all that
overhead we can keep it below the 1 day
mark okay okay that's one oh yeah so
it's mainly about the
doing the river looking and overhead
pieces because I I worked on that
algorithm on the weekend to figure out
what the rounding is and it's not just
up to a power of two it's it's up to a
power of two with padding yeah so right
so that so the threshold would be one
thousand and sixteen megabytes and as
soon as you go over one thousand sixteen
it would jump up to two gigs so tell ya
the hard threshold for you would be 101
six right but that's yeah that's after
all the overhead which I can't estimate
very well yeah so I'm being a bit more
conservative it's better than having you
know a lot of these things that are
taking up like massive amounts of
storage for the miners okay all right
anything else
I lost the meeting and say goodbye to
everyone and we see us again next week
same time same Channel
goodbye